Update project-dependencies.md (#6984)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/collaborate/govern/project-dependencies.md

keyword: dbt mesh, project dependencies, ref, cross project ref, project dependencies
---

# Project dependencies <Lifecycle status='enterprise'/>

For a long time, dbt has supported code reuse and extension by installing other projects as [packages](/docs/build/packages). When you install another project as a package, you are pulling in its full source code, and adding it to your own. This enables you to call macros and run models defined in that other project.

While this is a great way to reuse code, share utility macros, and establish a starting point for common transformations, it's not a great way to enable collaboration across teams and at scale, especially in larger organizations.

> dbt Labs introduced an expanded notion of `dependencies` across multiple dbt projects:

Reviewer: See the feedback below - maybe make this more evergreen
```suggestion
dbt Labs supports an expanded notion of `dependencies` across multiple dbt projects:
```

- **Packages** &mdash; Familiar and pre-existing type of dependency. You take this dependency by installing the package's full source code (like a software library).

> - **Projects** &mdash; The _latest_ way to take a dependency on another project. Using a metadata service that runs behind the scenes, dbt Cloud resolves references on-the-fly to public models defined in other projects. You don't need to parse or run those upstream models yourself. Instead, you treat your dependency on those models as an API that returns a dataset. The maintainer of the public model is responsible for guaranteeing its quality and stability.

Reviewer: This indicates that it will change again in the future. Is that the case or should we make this a more evergreen?

Maybe something like: 

```suggestion
- **Projects** &mdash; The dbt method to take a dependency on another project. Using a metadata service that runs behind the scenes, dbt Cloud resolves references on-the-fly to public models defined in other projects. You don't need to parse or run those upstream models yourself. Instead, you treat your dependency on those models as an API that returns a dataset. The maintainer of the public model is responsible for guaranteeing its quality and stability.
```

## Prerequisites
- Available in [dbt Cloud Enterprise](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing). To use it, designate a [public model](/docs/collaborate/govern/model-access) and add a [cross-project ref](#how-to-write-cross-project-ref).

> - Upstream ("producer") project setup:

Author: ```suggestion
- For the upstream ("producer") project setup:
```

> - Upstream ("producer") project setup:

Reviewer: Should we break this out or maybe retitle the section? Possibly something like

## Configure the upstream project

  - Configure models in upstream project with [`access: public`](/reference/resource-configs/access) and have at least one successful job run after defining `access`.
  - Define a deployment environment in the upstream project as [Production environment](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#set-as-production-environment), ensuring at least one successful job run in that environment.
  - If the upstream project has a Staging environment, run a job in that Staging environment to ensure the downstream cross-project ref resolves.
- Each project `name` must be unique in your dbt Cloud account. For example, if you have a dbt project (codebase) for the `jaffle_marketing` team, avoid creating projects for `Jaffle Marketing - Dev` and `Jaffle Marketing - Prod`; use [environment-level isolation](/docs/dbt-cloud-environments#types-of-environments) instead.

>   - dbt Cloud supports [Global connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#connection-management), allowing different data platform connections per environment for a single project. This eliminates the need to duplicate projects.

Author: @ericbaumann -- is the feature name 'global connections'? i don't see it mentioned in the cloud ui and docs either so wanting to confirm to make any corrections 🙏

Reviewer 2: I think we can just call them connections.

A couple caveats Eric can confirm... you can only use multiple connections within a project of the same warehouse type (all snowflake, all databricks, etc). Additionally, the connections are reusable across projects/environments which reduces the amount you need to create.

I think the second point is really where the term global comes from, but that's more internal naming than public facing. I reframe the callout to not include global but maybe say reusable connection definitions or something that is more clear.

Reviewer 3: I would agree that global is kind of an internal term. If you're looking for something public facing, I would say "account level connections" or just "connections"

I'm on my phone at the moment but the other thing I'd mention is that I don't believe this feature is enterprise only. it's the new way for doing connections across all plan tiers

Reviewer 3: this blurb feels like it's mostly about mesh setup. 

It's probably good to mention this there, but is there a more generalized place we talk about connections that should also be updated?

Reviewer 3: I wouldn't mention anything about single warehouse within a project -- we have some front end logic that only lets you change an existing env to the same warehouse type, but that's mostly for the purposes of the downstream creds data lifecycle (changing warehouses means changing schemas, which makes your creds invalid)

if you're setting up a brand new env I would expect that you're able to select whatever warehouse you like but I'm not certain on that

Author: thanks so much @thorn14 and @ericbaumann ! 

Eric, for your comments -- i can clarify that connections is available for all but also think its worth mentioning it in the mesh prerequisites. 

in terms of other places to update -- we have the main doc about [connection management](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#connection-management) and it looks like the below doc might need that?

- https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#deployment-connectionnnections#connection-management

![Screenshot 2025-03-07 at 14 35 32](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/828c2687-e6dc-4e0e-baea-7008ed7aad33)

Author: thank you @thorn14 ! going to update it to the below if you both think that makes sense:

> dbt Cloud supports [Connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#connection-management), available to all dbt Cloud users. Connections allows different data platform connections per environment, eliminating the need to duplicate projects. Projects can only use multiple connections of the same warehouse type. Connections are reusable across projects and environments.

Reviewer 3: Yeah i think it would be good to modify that `Connection Management` page to say connections are created and managed at the account level, but are then assigned to an environment. Currently, we recommend that you create a new environment if you are looking to change warehouse type. 

This allows you to use _more_ than one connection per project like it says today.

Author: great thanks @ericbaumann ! so is teh below a good replacement for the callout:

> Warehouse connections are created and managed at the account-level for dbt Cloud accounts and assigned to an environment. To change warehouse type, we recommend creating a new environment.  
 Each Project can have multiple connections (Snowflake account, Redshift host, Bigquery project, Databricks host, and so on.) of the same warehouse type. Some details of that connection (databases/schemas/etc.) can be overridden within this section of the dbt Cloud environment settings.

Reviewer 3: That looks good, thanks @mirnawong1!

>   - dbt Cloud supports [Connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#connection-management), available to all dbt Cloud users. Connections allows different data platform connections per environment, eliminating the need to duplicate projects. Projects can only use multiple connections of the same warehouse type. Connections are reusable across projects and environments.

Author: ```suggestion
  - dbt Cloud supports [Connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#connection-management), available to all dbt Cloud users. Connections allows different data platform connections per environment, eliminating the need to duplicate projects. Projects can use multiple connections of the same warehouse type. Connections are reusable across projects and environments.
```

keyword: dbt mesh, project dependencies, ref, cross project ref, project dependencies
---

# Project dependencies <Lifecycle status='enterprise'/>

For a long time, dbt has supported code reuse and extension by installing other projects as [packages](/docs/build/packages). When you install another project as a package, you are pulling in its full source code, and adding it to your own. This enables you to call macros and run models defined in that other project.

While this is a great way to reuse code, share utility macros, and establish a starting point for common transformations, it's not a great way to enable collaboration across teams and at scale, especially in larger organizations.

> This year, dbt Labs is introducing an expanded notion of `dependencies` across multiple dbt projects:

Author: ```suggestion
dbt Labs introduced an expanded notion of `dependencies` across multiple dbt projects:
```

## Prerequisites
- Available in [dbt Cloud Enterprise](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing). To use it, designate a [public model](/docs/collaborate/govern/model-access) and add a [cross-project ref](#how-to-write-cross-project-ref).
- Upstream project setup:
  - Define models in an upstream ("producer") project with [`access: public`](/reference/resource-configs/access). Have least one successful job run after defining `access`.
- Define a deployment environment in the upstream ("producer") project [set as your Production environment](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#set-as-production-environment). Have at least one successful job run in that environment.
- If the upstream project has a Staging environment, run a job in that Staging environment to ensure the downstream cross-project ref resolves.
- Each project `name` must be unique in your dbt Cloud account.
  - For example, if you have a dbt project (codebase) for the `jaffle_marketing` team, avoid creating projects for `Jaffle Marketing - Dev` and `Jaffle Marketing - Prod`; use environment-level isolation instead.

> - dbt Cloud supports [configuring different data platform connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#connection-management) per environment using Global Connections, eliminating the need to duplicate projects for different accounts.

Author: ```suggestion
- dbt Cloud supports [configuring different data platform connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#connection-management) per environment for a single project using Global connections. This removes the need to duplicate projects for different accounts.
```

> - dbt Cloud supports [configuring different data platform connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#connection-management) per environment for a single project using Global connections. This removes the need to duplicate projects for different accounts.

Author: @ericbaumann -- is the feature name 'global connections'? i don't see it mentioned in the cloud ui and docs either so wanting to confirm to make any corrections 🙏

> - dbt Cloud supports [Global connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#connection-management), allowing different data platform connections per environment for a single projects. This eliminates the need to duplicate projects.

Author: ```suggestion
- dbt Cloud supports [Global connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#connection-management), allowing different data platform connections per environment for a single project. This eliminates the need to duplicate projects.
```

> - dbt Cloud supports [configuring different data platform connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#connection-management) per environment for a single project using Global connections. This removes the need to duplicate projects for different accounts.

Author: ```suggestion
- dbt Cloud supports [Global connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#connection-management), allowing different data platform connections per environment for a single projects. This eliminates the need to duplicate projects.
```
